[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Raw food nutrition is one of
the greatest things out there
because it's not only healing
you in terms of the diabetic
symptoms, and the ill health,
and all those problems,
but it's spiritual.
It's connected to the earth.
I really believe that one of
the things that disconnects us
from the earth is because we
take a natural food like this,
we throw it through microwaves,
roast it, broil it, extract it,
add chemicals to
it, put it in bags,
and then sell it to people,
and people eat that.
Why don't you just
eat it straight
from the earth directly?
That's the underlying
teaching here.
Well, when you do that-- and
I've been doing that for over
a decade--
you do get connected to
God, to Mother Earth,
or whatever in a
different way than you
can perceive with your mind.
It's a type of value that you
cannot get anywhere else or you
can't imagine it.
You have to experience it.
>> Absolutely.
Your spirituality is
awakened in a different way
in a different sense.
There are a lot of people
that come to spirituality
eating a lot of bad foods too.
But once you get
on that bandwagon
of putting God's food in you--
there's a reason that every
major religion has a fasting
time and a cleansing
time, so that we
can make that connection again,
so that we can get closer.
So when you start to put God's
foods into your body, of course
that God flow that's
going through you
is tapped into a lot easier.
And I know my own
spiritual practice went up
millions of degrees
once my diet changed
and I cleaned my body out.
It made all the
difference in the world.
>> As your physical body becomes
less gross and less blocked
with toxins, you automatically
become a living vortex to be
able to pull down
the divine energy.
>> It puts you in touch with
mankind in a different way.
Your love, your
heart is awakened
in a different way when
you're only putting God's food
in and not the death
and destruction
of the other animals that
we share the planet with.
When you get out of that
realm of death and destruction
and eating raw,
living foods, I think
it raises the vibrations
of not only you,
but everything around you.
>> Everything is vibration
and everything is frequency.
The food we eat, the thoughts
we think, our intentions,
our desires, it's all vibration.
So beginning with
food, I remember
when I first became
a vegetarian,
it didn't have a lot
to do with health.
I had to do with
that I didn't want
a certain vibration in my body.
I didn't get the
vibration of a dead cow
or I didn't want the vibration
of a fearful chicken entering
into my body.
I wanted my body to be able to
maintain a certain vibration
and frequency that
would match my prayer
life and my meditation life.
And our body shall
be full of light.
It's all interrelated.
So the kind of food we eat and
the vibration that it carries,
how it was taken care
of, the hormones,
and the chemicals that are
pumped into it, the ranch--
it's soil--
that it's grown in, all of
that is frequency of vibration
that can, of course,
invade the body temple,
the cells of your body temple.
They won't replicate properly.
All of that allows for other
kind of toxic chemicals
to move through your body,
which will, of course,
affect your mood,
affect your perception.
Your perception determines
your experience in life.
So all of that's interrelated,
you see, from the kind of food
you eat, the kind of thought
you think, the kind of actions
you ultimately take.
Coming from a low
frequency-- a low vibration--
you end up creating
a world for yourself
that's not about happiness, or
joy, or bliss, or creativity.
And you kind of become
part of the crowd
of the walking dead, those
who are sleepwalking in life.
>> The biggest challenge of
today for human beings is there
is a negative gravitational pull
to go in the other direction.
It really is.
Everything that is insane is
considered sane in my world.
So it's not very easy to step
outside of what's considered
"conventional" and "normal."
It's very difficult
to step outside this.
So if someone starts
to make a change
in their diet or
their lifestyle,
they receive a lot of ridicule.
It's like, what are you
doing, or, that's different,
or, ew, what is
that you're eating?
And you become uncomfortable.
It's very easy to slide into
and be comfortable with what
everyone else is doing.
But I do think that once
you step on the path,
it isn't all negative because
the body is meant to thrive.
It's not only meant to
survive, but to thrive.
We have this inner intuition.
It's a book.
It's called intuition.
We know what's right.
It's tapping into it.
>> In the journey to
become a champion,
there is going to be
the urge to give up.
There is going to be
the desire to quit,
and that is a natural
human response. ,
Because in order to be the
best in order to change,
in order to step
ahead of the crowd,
in order to get into something
new, it takes courage.
And therefore,
there's going to be
another energy there,
which is, let's
get back in the comfort zone.
>> Even people who have a
strong spiritual practice,
it is wise to monitor what
goes inside of your mouth
because you end up using your
spiritual practice to overcome
the toxic energy that you
place in your body temple.
So if you went all pistons
firing, then what you eat,
what you drink, what you think,
your intention, all of that
is extremely important.
>> The opportunity for people
that are struggling in life,
that are having health issues,
I want to encourage people
to realize there are too many
health issues that you really
can't overcome.
And your body has that God-given
built in remedial capability.
All you have to do
is understand that we
have to live according
to natural law.
By living according to
natural law, what you give up
is going to free your body
up to do what it was meant
to do from the very beginning.
>> So when I learned
from the Indian style,
the fruitarian way of
life, and also exercises,
and mental work, and spiritual
work on a daily basis--
basically, start when you
get up in the morning first,
you're going to be your own
kind of policeman with your own
thought process.
Because we are bombarded
by negativity and anxiety
problems.
People are dying, and there's
accidents, and there's wars,
and there's rapes, and
there's horrible things going
on all the time.
So you always have to make,
sure as much as you can,
to stay in a positive
frame of mind.
The glass is always half
full no matter what happens.
And you have to pray.
You have to have faith in
God and faith in yourself
and find your purpose in life.
It happened for me
when I turned 50.
I just knew I was going
to be a public speaker.
And it's just interesting,
when you make a decision
and you make a commitment, how
things flow into your life.
>> Something inside has to light
up, some level of inspiration,
in order to keep people going.
And I believe that
that inspiration
is knowing that what
awaits on the other side
is something better than they
could have ever even known.
>> It's a long, long,
long, difficult road,
but I do think that we are
making inroads into it.
There is an awareness.
There are people waking up.
It's about waking up.
People are walking around
asleep on our planet.
They're not paying attention.
You hear little
buzz words of what's
going on with the
environment, but what are we
doing in our lives,
specifically,
to make those changes?
We aren't working with
the full picture enough,
but I think the seeds
are being planted.
>> And mainstream people
really need to get with this
because many of them are like
sheep, walking to slaughter,
you know?
They're just in a haze.
They think they've arrived on
the planet to be consumers.
They're addicted to the next
mall, the next fast food
restaurant, the next
bigger and brighter
hamburger or something.
And they're killing themselves
and setting themselves
up to be leeched on by the
pharmaceutical companies
until they die.
And that's not why we're here.
We're here to be creative
expressions of the infinite.
We are the stars looking back at
themselves with all the power,
and it's within us, being used
to conform to a sick society.
And now we need to set
ourselves free to heal,
to allow the power to express
so that we could not only
be the creative individuals
that we're called to be,
but to then build a world in
which every boy and girl, man
and woman has their
basic needs met
so we can harvest
everyone's gifts
and talents and absolutely
build Heaven on Earth.
[MUSIC PLAYING]